General content feedback (#100)
simplabs/playbook: src/project-procedure/digital-products/README.md

through of all the stages as an _"increment"_ of the product. For the first
increment, we recommend building only the minimal set of functionality necessary
to deliver value (the
[_"Minimum viable product"_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimum_viable_product)

> of MVP). Each subsequent increment adds a coherent set of functionality to the

Reviewer: should this be

```suggestion
or MVP). Each subsequent increment adds a coherent set of functionality to the
```

?

After kicking off the project, the infrastructure that is going to support the
team needs to be set up, as effective tooling is vital for effective
collaboration among the stakeholders. Ensure tooling is cloud-based to aid

> real-time contributions and so it can serve as a single source of truth. The

Reviewer: I think the main reason for cloud-based tools is to support remote. You could have realtime collaboration with a sticker wall and use that as the single source of truth as well after all.

Reviewer: Yes, makes sense. I think what we really mean is persistence and traceability (being able to follow changes etc.) though – the fact that you can look things up later on?

Reviewer: I think this is still open?

```suggestion
real-time contributions and so it offers transparency for everyone. The
```

Author: I assume you saw the update (after I pushed hehe): "Ensure tooling is cloud-based and therefore persistent and traceable"

main tasks are:

- Deciding and setting up a source control system for maintaining the project's
  source code; this would usually be a git-based system
- Deciding and setting up a system for maintaining and collaborating on design

>   assets; we recommend using software that allows for component-based design,

Reviewer: bit of a nitpick but I think we should be saying

```suggestion
  source files; we recommend using software that allows for component-based design,
```

since we're also saying that [above](https://github.com/simplabs/playbook/pull/100/files#diff-e5f37c8c55525e147399ef1f0055361eR560)

team needs to be set up, as effective tooling is vital for effective
collaboration among the stakeholders. The main tasks are:

- Deciding and setting up a source control system for maintaining the project's
  source code; this would usually be a git-based system
- Deciding and setting up a system for maintaining and collaborating on design
  assets; we recommend using software that allows for component-based design,
  and a system that allows maintaining assets like source code with branching,
  pull request and review mechanisms
- Deciding and setting up a system for maintaining and collaborating on

>   documents (e.g. user stories, etc.); this system should be cloud-based, and

Reviewer: Why are we mentioning _"cloud-based"_ here? All of the tools need to be cloud-based after all.

Reviewer: I think we should probably add something above that talks about the necessity of all tools being cloud-based etc. I could add that as well.

Author: I moved it to the top of this section 👍

high-level objective for the project (e.g. a web application that allows
customers to configure the company's products according to their needs and order
that configuration via the company's website). That information should be
written down in a short (aiming for about one page) mission statement document
to clearly express the project's scope and goals. We also recommend defining one
or more Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) (e.g. _"number of sales via the
website"_, _"number of support requests from users"_) to quantify the situation
before and after the project for easier
[evaluation in later stages](#evaluation). If no data is available for these
KPIs, it might be necessary to set up additional tracking or conduct research.

### Personas

In addition to the mission statement, the project team also needs to identify
potential future users, along with their prior knowledge, skills, needs, and
motivations with regard to the application. We recommend defining one or
multiple [personas](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/persona/) (typical
representatives of the future user base) based on all acquired facts in order to

> visualize the user base. Although personas have a controversial reputation, a

Reviewer: > Although personas have a controversial reputation

I think only saying this but not explaining is confusing. When I read this it gives me the feeling I'm using something that's maybe bad. I think either we explain why the reputation is controversial briefly and tell people what to do and what not to do or we do not mention it.

Author: I removed the controversial bit in this section 👍

project's objective.

### Mission Statement and KPIs

Based on the gathered facts, the project team will be able to define a
high-level objective for the project (e.g. a web application that allows
customers to configure the company's products according to their needs and order
that configuration via the company's website). That information should be
written down in a short (aiming for about one page) mission statement document
to clearly express the project's scope and goals. We also recommend defining one
or more Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) (e.g. _"number of sales via the
website"_, _"number of support requests from users"_) to quantify the situation
before and after the project for easier
[evaluation in later stages](#evaluation). If no data is available for these
KPIs, it might be necessary to set up additional tracking or conduct research.

### Personas

In addition to the mission statement, the project team also needs to identify
potential future users, along with their prior knowledge, skills, needs, and
motivations with regard to the application. We recommend defining one or
multiple [personas](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/persona/) (typical

> representatives of the future user base) based on all acquired facts in order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
representatives of the future user base) based on all acquired facts in order to
```

  solve with it?
- What previous experience do they have in relation to the product?
- What will make the solution appealing and valuable for them?
- What makes them unique compared to the other personas?

These users are then grouped by related concepts and patterns that emerge from
the answers to these questions. Each of the resulting clusters constitutes a
persona that is given a name so it can be easily referred to and described with
its main characteristics in a persona document (aiming for about one page per
persona).

Make each persona memorable, associating them with characteristics of a real
person such an image, name, age, attributes, desires, and behaviors. It is vital
that personas are not defined once and then forgotten, but rather that they are
brought to the table on a daily basis. Seeing a feature through the eyes of a
persona creates empathy for the customer segment and helps ensure that we meet
their needs as much as possible. Since they represent the project's users,
finding ways to integrate them into the everyday decision-making process (e.g.
when prioritizing features, planning user stories, and recruiting for usability

> testing) is what makes them a valuable tool.

Reviewer: 👌

  solve with it?
- What previous experience do they have in relation to the product?
- What will make the solution appealing and valuable for them?
- What makes them unique compared to the other personas?

These users are then grouped by related concepts and patterns that emerge from
the answers to these questions. Each of the resulting clusters constitutes a
persona that is given a name so it can be easily referred to and described with
its main characteristics in a persona document (aiming for about one page per
persona).

It is vital that personas are not defined once and then forgotten, but rather

> that they are brought to the table on a daily basis. Make each persona

Reviewer: > but rather that they are brought to the table on a daily basis

What are we saying with this precisely?

Author: One of the most common problems with personas is that they are created but not used, which in turn makes them useless. It's part of why they are controversial (The little cartoon nails it: "Personas don't work. We created them before and nobody even used them" https://www.nngroup.com/articles/why-personas-fail/)

Reviewer: Is there actionable guidance we can give? Maybe just adding some examples for what bringing them to the table on a daily basis could mean?

Author: Sure, I will expand.

memorable, associating them with characteristics of a real person such an image,

> name, age, and a catchy description that summarizes their world view.

Reviewer: > and a catchy description that summarizes their world view.

I assume we are not indeed trying to capture their world view? If not, is there a better way to say this?

Author: We are trying to capture the attributes, desires, and behaviors that need to be considered when making design decisions. 

We could rephrase this as "name, age, and a quote that summarizes their attributes, desires, and behaviors".

Reviewer: Is that to make them more personal and thus easier to remember/relate to?

Author: It's what a persona is, in a nutshell. Their goal is to capture the archetype of a specific user and express their place in the world in the context of the product. This helps create empathy and see the product through their eyes when designing and solving problems for them. The above words ("attributes, desires, and behaviors") come directly from the persona definition from the leading organization in UX (https://www.nngroup.com/articles/persona/)

Reviewer: I think this is great

> This helps create empathy and see the product through their eyes when designing and solving problems for them.

Author: Cool, I integrated it in this section 🙌

  solve with it?
- What previous experience do they have in relation to the product?
- What will make the solution appealing and valuable for them?
- What makes them unique compared to the other personas?

These users are then grouped by related concepts and patterns that emerge from
the answers to these questions. Each of the resulting clusters constitutes a
persona that is given a name so it can be easily referred to and described with
its main characteristics in a persona document (aiming for about one page per
persona).

It is vital that personas are not defined once and then forgotten, but rather
that they are brought to the table on a daily basis. Make each persona
memorable, associating them with characteristics of a real person such an image,
name, age, and a catchy description that summarizes their world view. Another
way of integrating personas further into our daily work is by

> [segmenting analytics data using personas ](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/analytics-persona-segment/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[segmenting analytics data using personas](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/analytics-persona-segment/).
```

Reviewer: What's the outcome of that though? Can you elaborate?

Author: The goal would be to identify the personas in usage data, to verify hypotheses of what their behavior is meant to be and to learn about their interaction with the product. However, this topic for me is purely theoretical, so perhaps it's better to wait to make this point until we have a project in which we could prove this point.

Reviewer: Hm, maybe yes. I'd say if we add this we should at least briefly explain what it means and what the outcome is.

  solve with it?
- What previous experience do they have in relation to the product?
- What will make the solution appealing and valuable for them?
- What makes them unique compared to the other personas?

These users are then grouped by related concepts and patterns that emerge from
the answers to these questions. Each of the resulting clusters constitutes a
persona that is given a name so it can be easily referred to and described with
its main characteristics in a persona document (aiming for about one page per
persona).

Make each persona memorable, associating them with characteristics of a real
person such an image, name, age, attributes, desires, and behaviors. It is vital
that personas are not defined once and then forgotten, but rather that they are
brought to the table on a daily basis. Seeing a feature through the eyes of a

> persona creates empathy for the customer segment and helps ensure that we meet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
persona creates empathy for the customer segment the represent and helps ensure that we meet
```

?

Reviewer: Hm, the next sentence says _"…they represent…"_ as well so maybe this doesn't work but it feels like there's something missing when reading this…

representatives etc.).

While applying a systematic approach for developing a coherent understanding of
what will be built, we recommend keeping the initial product design stage
limited and not do excessively detailed up-front design and specification. There
may come a time in which you might opt to validate a value proposition or design
solution by user testing a high-fidelity prototype. Steer away from creating the
protoype with design tools only as they tend to give a false impression of a
finished product, and can't cover every possible state and functionality as well
as address all challenges for features. We recommend opting for a code-based
prototype, as they provide an experience that is much closer to the actual
product, and the creation effort can be integrated into the product once
validated. Use the code-based prototype to collect user feedback and verify
assumptions as early as possible. Start with limited functionality initially and

> build up incrementally over time.

Reviewer: I think we should differentiate between different things:

* Doing lots of up-front design leads to the same problems as with a spec. A design will necessarily be a relatively detailed description of the system that is to be built – just like a specification, it captures a big part of the project just not with words but visually. At the stage where we do the initial design we don't have anything to build on yet so we need to take a big leap from having an understanding of what the product or it's initial increment/the MVP will be to a relatively detailed description of part of that in the designs. While we have to do it of course as we need a visual starting point for the development, the less up-front design we do, the fewer assumptions we'll be making that can later turn out false.
* I think what is meant by the current text:

  > Therefore we recommend aiming for a quick transition to the development stage, using the real application to collect feedback and verify assumptions as early as possible.

  is the same thing you mean by "code-based prototype". I'd just not call that a prototype but the first step for building the respective feature. I think the general thing we're trying to say here is "only work as much in theory as you have to and work as much in practice as possible" where theory is PS/Sketch/any prototyping tool and practice is the actual application.

Reviewer: I don't say we should not have any guidance on user testing, prototyping etc. Here we discuss things on a higher level though and I think we should maybe put details on prototyping etc. in the more hands-on chapter https://github.com/simplabs/playbook/tree/master/src/development-process

Author: Shall we remove prototyping from this section entirely?

tend to give a false impression of a finished product even though it is
basically impossible to cover every possible aspect and prevent new challenges
for particular features from being uncovered in the development stage. Also,
static mockups will never give as realistic an impression for the final product
as one will get from an actual application even if it starts out with very
limited functionality initially and is only built up incrementally over time.
Therefore we recommend aiming for a quick transition to the development stage,

> using the real application to collect feedback and verify assumptions as early

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the real application to collect feedback and validate assumptions as early
```

agree on. That final concept is then written down in a user story document
consisting of:

- A textual description of the user story, the need that it addresses and the
  solution that it provides
- The persona(s) that the user story (mainly) caters to
- The low-fidelity diagram showing steps in the user story and transitions
  between steps

> - Low-fidelity wireframes of the the involved user interface (UI) elements

Reviewer: The idea of the approach is to specifically **not** add anything that would imply a particular UI at this stage since that could lead the discussion into a very different direction. Focussing on the functional aspects is much easier when you explicitly leave out all visual aspects.

So that's the idea – happy to change things if you don't think that makes sense. That's mostly taken over from [ShapeUp](https://basecamp.com/shapeup) btw.

Author: I'll take a read of ShapeUp! I do think it's very valuable to have a wireframing phase before jumping into UI design. That specific point could go in the following section (UI design)

Reviewer: Yes, that's the idea – focussing only on the flows/functional aspects in the user story phase, then doing wireframes and mockups for *one* of the stories after that. Then after that, there would be no additional wireframes/mockups necessary as we could simply evolve the design system (and wireframes/mockups would kind of be replaced by PRs to the design system that would be reviewed and in that way go through a few iterations).

Again, this is all not written by a design expert (me) so might not make sense – I don't really have hands-on experience with these things of course.

Author: It makes sense to wireframe only one user story at a time. I'll modify to align the message. 
What I do want to be careful about is the message of future wireframes / mockups not being necessary. It is the dream (and the goal) BUT it takes maybe years to reach a level of maturity to come close to that, and even then if a feature is asking for something new that is not in the system it does need to be created then. Let's talk more about it when you're back!

they can potentially be left out in a first implementation of the particular
story.

### User Interface Design

The user interface (UI) of a product is based on existing branding material and
visual guidelines. If no such materials exist, the visual identity needs to
first be defined.

When working on the first increment of a product, there is typically no visual
foundation that can be built on top of in the product development stage yet. In
order to develop that, we design wireframes and mockups for one of the user
stories (and work only one story at a time). These help develop a mutual
understanding among all project stakeholders for the visual identity of the
product. Every subsequent increment will build on and expand the visual
foundation, using reusable UI components as often as possible, allowing for a

> faster transition into the development stage. Over time, a

Reviewer: I think it might make sense these future steps would also usually be smaller than this initial leap?

Author: Is that always the case? Size-wise, there might be some increments down the line that are much more complex in terms of animations and detail added to the design. I am not sure what value there may be in pinning which step is smaller or bigger.

Reviewer: I think the size of the steps is the main thing really. E.g. in the initial design we'll have to add all kinds of general element for the application. We'll be adding the app layout that's going to be the same for  all of  the  app. We'll be designing inputs etc. which will lay the foundation for all forms later on. Every additional feature we'll be building in the same or later increments will be building on that, won't it?

Reviewer: > Size-wise, there might be some increments down the line that are much more complex in terms of animations and detail added to the design.

Also, to avoid confusion – I think the next step is not going to be the next increment but the next thing we build after the user story that the mockups we create in this first design phase are for in the **current** increment.

Author: Hmm.. how about instead of focusing on size, mentioning that the design iterates over the initial components so that over time they are more flexible and able to be used in a wider variety of ways. 
The reason why I don't think focusing on size is that helpful, is because I never really have the feeling that work in a project becomes smaller. It is always a lot of work, just over time it may become more detailed. When a new feature comes and there are little to no UI elements that can be reused, most of it will have to be designed from scratch. That is typical for the beginning phase (~6 months to a year) of a project / design system.

they can potentially be left out in a first implementation of the particular
story.

### User Interface Design

The user interface (UI) of a product is based on existing branding material and
visual guidelines. If no such materials exist, the visual identity needs to
first be defined, applying techniques like
[The Three-Hour Brand Sprint](https://library.gv.com/the-three-hour-brand-sprint-3ccabf4b768a),

> mood boards and stylescapes.

Reviewer: If we recommend this technique, can we describe it in the playbook vs. referring to an external page?

Author: It's a method that consists of 5 exercises that would each need to be explained individually. Shall I write a summary and add a reference to the author in this section? My only concern with making this section much longer would be that it may add too much prominence to branding which is not our specialty.

Reviewer: I agree we don't want to give advice on branding here. We can then also remove all mention of everything relevant to that like mood boards, stylescapes, brand sprint etc. if we don't want to go into any detail on any of those (which I agree makes sense)?

Author: Sure, I'll remove it 👍

When working on the first increment of a product, there is typically no visual
foundation that can be built on top of in the product development stage yet. In
order to develop that, we design wireframes and mockups for one of the user
stories (and work only one story at a time). These help develop a mutual
understanding among all project stakeholders for the visual identity of the
product. For subsequent increments, this step will not always be necessary as

> the team can design and develop the product in reusable UI components, allowing

Reviewer: I think the main point here is that we will not have to design the entire app in later steps. You'll have e.g. the layout already, some basic UI mechanics etc. that were introduced with this initial design so you won't be forced to make as big of a leap into uncertainty when extending something that exists vs. imagining something that does not exist.

Author: I updated this section to make it more clear, please let me know if it works.

for a faster transition into the development stage. Over time, a
[visual design system](../../development-process/#design-systems) is
established.

While the mockup will be a high-fidelity visual representation of the UI of a
particular user story, we recommend keeping it non-interactive and relatively
low effort as its main purpose is to define a visual style for the product and
not to specify individual details of the respective user story or the product in

> general. Instead of trying to achieve these goals with an interactive mockup

Reviewer: I think we should change this as well. Of course the mockup will

> specify individual details of the respective user story or the product in general

and that's actually what's the problem since these details might turn out not to work or not be right for several reasons. I think here we might want to go into more detail around that being a necessary risk and the reason why it's good that after this we can extend an existing product and make less assumptions etc.

Author: I am not 100% sure of what you mean here. The only changes I made were from calling it a "prototype" to an "interactive mockup". 

What is a necessary risk? Is it the risk of working from a mockup design, that is based on assumptions rather than knowledge that is only acquired once the product is in the hands of users?

Reviewer: Yes understood you didn't change this but we should still change it – I read it again when reviewing your changes.

So what I'm saying with regards to risk is that a detailed mockup created from nothing or only a user story is kind of a spec in a different robe. It'll also make a bunch of assumptions that you can only validate once the product exists.

Author: I added this point, please let me know if it communicates what you are thinking

they can potentially be left out in a first implementation of the particular
story.

### User Interface Design

When working on the first increment of a product, there is typically no visual
foundation that can be built on top of in the product development stage yet. In
order to develop that, we recommend designing mockups for one of the user
stories to develop a mutual understanding among all project stakeholders for the
visual identity of the product. For subsequent increments, this step will not

> always be necessary as the team can go straight to the product development stage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
usually be necessary as the team can go straight to the product development stage
```

since it being necessary would be the exception I guess?

Author: What I am trying to express is that although the goal is to be able to get to that point, it takes a VERY long time for a product's design system to get to a level of maturity that no UI design is needed anymore. I don't want to give the impression that this is something quick or easy to achieve. Also, there are only so many things that are reusable. When there are features that use new UI elements those will always have to be designed.

Reviewer: Would't *everything* eventually end up in the design system regardless of how often it is used?

Author: The goal is to have as much as possible in the design system, but different teams might have different rules as to what makes sense to actually include there. Generally, all the UI must follow the stylistic foundation established in the design system and must use the smaller components (atoms + molecules) regardless. However, I recommend to include more complex components once they are being used more than once, or if they can be built very generically upfront (ideal case scenario), or if it's obvious that they will be reused in the future. When refactoring a UI, this is where having an interface inventory is really helpful, to have a more holistic understanding of what is happening throughout the interface. More importantly than anything though, it's all about deciding these guidelines as a team (it's part of the guiding principles that are collaboratively created).

Author: Also - consider some throwaway elements sometimes needed - e.g. promotional components for a specific marketing campaign (I'd say this is less than 10% but still, they tend to exist)

Author: I rewrote this a bit, hopefully it's more clear.

[visual design system](../../development-process/#design-systems) established
during previous increments.

The UI of a product will be based on existing branding material and visual
guidelines. If no such materials exist, the visual identity needs to first be
defined, applying techniques like
[The Three-Hour Brand Sprint](https://library.gv.com/the-three-hour-brand-sprint-3ccabf4b768a),
mood boards and stylescapes.

While the mockup will be a high-fidelity visual representation of the UI of a
particular user story, we recommend keeping it non-interactive and relatively
low effort as its main purpose is to define a visual style for the product and
not to specify individual details of the respective user story or the product in
general. Instead of trying to achieve these goals with a prototype that can not
precisely resemble the eventual product anyway, aim for providing an initial
version of the actual product as soon as possible and use that as the basis for
all subsequent discussions. Iterating based on the actual product as opposed to
a prototype that would still have to be converted into something real anyway
results in widely improved effectiveness of the overall process.

> ![Wireframe and Mockup](../../../assets/wireframe-and-mockup.svg "The first increment of a product will require turning wireframes into mockups for one of the user stories in order to agree on a layout and visual style for the product")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Wireframe and Mockup](../../../assets/wireframe-and-mockup.svg "The first increment of a product will require creating wireframes and mockups for one of the user stories in order to agree on a layout and visual style for the product")
```

?

they can potentially be left out in a first implementation of the particular
story.

### User Interface Design

The user interface (UI) of a product is based on existing branding material and
visual guidelines. If no such materials exist, the visual identity needs to
first be defined.

When working on the first increment of a product, there is typically no visual
foundation that can be built on top of in the product development stage yet. In

> order to develop that, we design wireframes and mockups for one of the user

Reviewer: Let's not say things like _"we do xyz"_ – the idea is this can serve as guidance for others as well and I think for that's it's better if that's reflected in the wording. If we say _"we recommend…"_ I think that's different.

Author: We most commonly use an imperative tone elsewhere e.g. "define a plan", "list which of the non-essential aspects".
I am updating this to match the rest of the document.

> stories (and work only one story at a time). These help develop a mutual

Reviewer: Is

> (and work only one story at a time)

confusing when we're saying to do it only for one user story anyway

Author: Agreed, I removed this.

understanding among all project stakeholders for the visual identity of the

> product. Every subsequent increment will build on and expand the visual

Reviewer: I think we should add something like

> …and adds the foundation for the product's user interface design

or something to make it clearer?

foundation, using reusable UI components as often as possible, allowing for a
faster transition into the development stage. Over time, a
[visual design system](../../development-process/#design-systems) is
established.

While the mockup will be a high-fidelity visual representation of the UI of a
particular user story, we recommend keeping it non-interactive and relatively
low effort. A mockup's main purpose is to define a visual style for the product
and to specify individual details of the respective user story (as much as

> possible given the existing information). The most effective way of validating

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure I understand what you mean here. Let's see whether we can make this clearer.

ideas is to provide an initial version of the actual product as soon as possible
and gain user insights, which are the basis for all subsequent discussions.

> Iterating based on the actual product as opposed to an interactive mockup that

Author: I'm thinking of removing this sentence: "Iterating based on the actual product as opposed to an interactive mockup that would still have to be converted into something real anyway results in widely improved effectiveness of the overall process."

It sounds as though the iteration will only happen in the product, but not in the mockups. In reality, both are going to be iterated over time and will evolve simultaneously, as one informs the other. Any thoughts on that?

Reviewer: yes I think this is confusing and we're making the point we want to make before already anyway

Author: Removed 👍

they can potentially be left out in a first implementation of the particular
story.

### User Interface Design

The initial stage of user interface (UI) design entails establishing a

> foundation that can be applied consistently to the product. Take some time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visual foundation that can be applied consistently to the product. Take some time
```

?

up-front to create brand guidelines (if none exist) and establish variables such
as typography, color, and spacing.

Next, create mid-fidelity wireframes of the first user story to convert the

> functionality to detailed UI elements, but without potentially distracting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
functionality to concrete UI elements, but without potentially distracting
```

_"detailed"_ is also repeated below

stylistic details of high-fidelity designs. Once the wireframes are agreed upon
by all relevant stakeholders, mockups of the user story can be created. Use the

> foundation as a base to style the mockups, creating UI components with future

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visual foundation developed previously as a base to style the mockups, creating UI components with future
```

?

> reusability in mind. As the design grows, reuse components as often as possible
> to ensure consistency and efficiency in the project. Later steps will likely be
> focused on smaller feature sets and build up on previous foundational decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reusability in mind. Later design steps will likely be
focused on smaller sets of UI and build up on previous decisions.
```

?

Author: not sure this sentence makes sense as it is written. Maybe "Later design steps will likely be
focused on smaller sets of UI and build upon decisions ~~that were made~~ and visual elements that were introduced previously.

Reviewer: ok 👍 I said "decisions that were made" because decision are made, not introduced? I agree it doesn't sound good that way

Author: Applied 👌

Establishing principles and guidelines on how to use components as well as the
creation of a UI component library create the basis of a

> [design system](../../development-process/#design-systems).

Reviewer: I think we can probably remove mention of design systems altogether here since this is more higher level anyway?

Author: I'd rather leave it in, it's a very important topic and it should start being built with the foundation.

Reviewer: ok

> It's helpful to time box design activities, and not get carried away with

Reviewer: I think this paragraph is good, just not sure about _"time box"_ – makes it sound a bit like we recommend to just stop after some time while the idea is more to accept a bit of uncertainty and iterate on the real product then to address that.

Author: Shall we say: "It's helpful to accept a bit of uncertainty and iterate on the real product rather than focus too much on high-effort prototypes"?

Reviewer: That makes sense but then we need to change the rest of the paragraph as well:

> It's helpful to accept a bit of uncertainty and iterate on the real product rather than focus too much on high-effort prototypes. The goal is getting something real in the hands of our users as fast as possible to validate our
 ideas. Their insights informs the design, helping evolve it iteratively
 according to their actual needs.

Author: Applied 👌

they can potentially be left out in a first implementation of the particular
story.

> ### User Interface Design

Reviewer: I think we need to update the title as well – of course user interface design will happen throughout the entire project but this step is specifically about establishing the foundation for that.

Author: Ok - updating that now

they can potentially be left out in a first implementation of the particular
story.

### User Interface Design

The initial stage of user interface (UI) design entails establishing a
foundation that can be applied consistently to the product. Take some time
up-front to create brand guidelines (if none exist) and establish variables such
as typography, color, and spacing.

Next, create mid-fidelity wireframes of the first user story to plan their
detailed functionality without potentially distracting style elements of
high-fidelity designs. Once functionality is agreed upon by all relevant

> stakeholders, mockups of the user story can be created. Use the foundation as a

Reviewer: Hm, now we're leaking defining the functionality into this step. Think about the P+P project – would we have to do additional definition of functionality for any of the stories we talked about before being able to create a mockup for one of them (in which case I'd say let's maybe review why that is and what's missing).

Reviewer: Or does _"functionality"_ refer to what I might call _"UI details"_ here? I understand we need a step to think about whether e.g. a select box or an auto-complete text box might be more appropriate for a particular thing and similar decisions – just not sure I'd call that _"functionality"_ which I think is also a bit confusing when we say we capture the functionality in the increment plan before.

Author: I can see the problem with saying functionality here. I want to express that in this phase we can focus on selecting or creating UI for the before specified functionality, as well as define visual hierarchy and arrangement of the elements on a page. 

To answer your question about the P+P project, I would 100% still create wireframes at this point before going into the final design phase. The functionality has been specified but the edge cases and fine-grained details will still need some work before jumping into colors and fonts. 

Do you agree with this? If so, I will find a way to integrate it into this section.

Reviewer: Yes, I agree 👍

base to create UI designs, keeping in mind that it's more efficient to design
with reusable components rather than creating them from scratch every time. We
recommend reusing components as often as possible, and if new ones must be

> created, create them with future reusability in mind.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this isn't confusing – of course this makes sense but we're saying _"…rather than creating them from scratch every time."_ while this is explicitly about the **first** time only.

Author: Take a look if it works now, I improved the clarity here.
